APIDOC.md, before:

# **Motor Nation** API Documentation
The Motor Nation API provides information about all of the vehicles in the database that we sell as well as users' transaction history.


## *Get a list of vehicles matching filter parameters*
**Request Format:** /vehicles?maxPrice=X&type=Y&search=Z

**Request Type:** GET

**Returned Data Format:** Plain text

**Description:** Return a list of all vehicles matching the given type and price filters.


**Example Request:** /vehicles?maxPrice=10000&type=car

**Parameters:**
- `maxPrice`: the maximum price of returned vehicles (i.e. 10000, 20000)
- `type`: the type of vehicle returned (i.e. car, boat)
- `search`: input that user enters to search for, can be empty

**Example Response:**

```
SUV:suv
Coupe:coupe
Station Wagon:station-wagon
Pickup Truck:pickup-truck
...
```

**Error Handling:**
N/A

## *Check if username and password exist*
**Request Format:** /users

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** Plain text

**Description:** When a user submits a username and password, checks if the username and password pair exists in the database and returns a success or failure response.

**Example Request:** /users with POST parameters of `username=example@abc.com` and `password=ABC123`

**Parameters:**
- `username`: user's email
- `password`: user's password

**Example Response:**

```
Success
```

**Error Handling:**
- Possible 400 (invalid request) errors (all plain text):
  - if email does not exist in database, an error is returned with the message: `No account is linked to this emaill adresss.`
  - if email exists, but password is incorrect, an error is returned with the message: `The username and password do not match, please try again.`

## *Get data of a specific vehicle*
**Request Format:** /vehicles/:vehicle_name

**Request Type:** GET

**Returned Data Format:** JSON

**Description:** When a user clicks on a vehicle, returns information about the vehicle

**Example Request:** /vehicles/fordf-150

**Parameters:**
- `vehicle_name`: short name/identifier of the vehicle

**Example Response:**

```json
{
    "name": "Ford F-150",
    "type": "pickup-truck",
    "price": 30000,
    "color": "white",
    "remaining": 500,
    "image": "images/vehicles/fordf-150.png",
    "ratings": [
      {
        "star": 5,
        "comment": "murica baby"
      },
      {
        "star": 3,
        "comment": "eats too much gas"
      }
    ]
}
```

**Error Handling:**
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Unable to load. Please try again later. :(`

## *Purchasing a vehicle*
**Request Format:** /vehicles/:vehicle_name/buy

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** TEXT

**Description:** When a user attempts to make a purchase, checks to see if transaction can be made. For a purchase to be successful, a user must be logged in, have enough money in their balance to purchase the vehicle, and the vehicle needs to be in stock

**Example Request:** /vehicles/fordf-150/buy with POST parameters of `loggedIn=true`,`balance=50000`, and `remaining=500`

**Parameters:**
- `loggedIn`: whether user is logged in or not
- `balance`: amount of money a user have in their account
- `remaining`: amount of given vehicle in stock

**Example Response:**

```
// Success
123456

// Failure
"No More Left in Stock!"
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user is not logged in and tries to make a purchase, returns error message: `Please log in before making a purchase!`
  - If the selected vehicle is out of stock, returns error message: `This vehicle is out of stock. Please browse for other vehicles or check back in the future!`
  - If the user does not have enough money to buy a vehicle, returns error message: `Your account balance is not enough to buy this vehicle!`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Transaction Failed. Please try again later. :(`

## *Accessing transaction history*
**Request Format:** /account/history

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** JSON

**Description:** When a user checks their transaction history, returns information of all history associated with that account including the name of the vehicle and confirmation code

**Example Request:** /account/default_username/history with POST parameters of `loggedIn=true`, `account=example@123.com`

**Parameters:**
- `loggedIn`: whether user is logged in or not
- `account`: username of the account that is logged in

**Example Response:**

```json
// Success
{
    "purchases": [
      {
        "vehicle": "Ford F-150",
        "code": 123456
      },
      {
        "vehicle": "Tank",
        "code": 654321
      }
    ]
}
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user is not logged in, returns error message: `Please log in!`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again later. :(`

## *Provide Feedback/Rating*
**Request Format:** /:vehicle/rate

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** TEXT

**Description:** After a user have purchased a vehicle, they can leave a rating and comment on the vehicle

**Example Request:** /fordf-150/rate with POST parameters of `rating=5`, `comment=awesome`

**Parameters:**
- `rating`: rating for the vehicle (out of 5)
- `comment`: the comment that the user leaves for the vehicle

**Example Response:**

```
Review Added Successfully!
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user is not logged in, returns error message: `Please log in!`
  - If the user have not purchased the selected vehicle before reviewing, returns error message: `You cannot leave a review as you have not purchased this vehicle.`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again later. :(`

## *Creating a new user*
**Request Format:** /account/create

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format**: TEXT

**Description:** When a user fills in all their information in the sign up
form and hits the submit button, a POST request is made to the account endpoint and their information is added to the database.

**Example Request:** /account/create with POST parameters of
- `firstName=John`
- `LastName=Doe`
- `email=name123@example.com`
- `password=123abc`

**Parameters:**
- `firstName`: First name of the user
- `lastName`: Last name of the user
- `email`: Users email
- `password`: User's password

**Example Response:**

```
Success
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user tries to create an account with an email that already exists in the database, returns error message: `An account with that email address already exists.`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again later. :(`

Commit message:

Fixed APIDOC based on comments from instructor

APIDOC.md, after:

# **Motor Nation** API Documentation
The Motor Nation API provides information about all of the vehicles in the database that we sell as well as users' transaction history. Vehicles and vehicle names are based on vehicles from the GTA V video game.


## *Get a list of vehicles matching filter parameters*
**Request Format:** /vehicles?maxPrice=X&type=Y&search=Z

**Request Type:** GET

**Returned Data Format:** Plain text

**Description:** Return a list of all vehicles matching the given type and price filters.


**Example Request:** /vehicles?maxPrice=10000&type=car

**Parameters:**
- `maxPrice`: the maximum price of returned vehicles (i.e. 10000, 20000, ..., 10000000)
- `type`: the type of vehicle returned (i.e. car, boat)
- `search`: input that user enters to search for, can be empty

**Example Response:**

```
asbo
blista
brioso
brioso2
weevil
...
```

**Error Handling:**
- Possible 400 (invalid request) errors (all plain text):
  - if no maximum price is selected, an error is returned with the message: `Please select a maxiumum price when searching for vehicles.`
  - if non type is selected, an error is returned with the message: `Please select the type of vehicle you would like to view.`

## *Check if username and password exist*
**Request Format:** /users

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** Plain text

**Description:** When a user submits a username and password, checks if the username and password pair exists in the database and returns a success or failure response.

**Example Request:** /users with POST parameters of `username=example@abc.com` and `password=ABC123`

**Parameters:**
- `username`: user's email
- `password`: user's password

**Example Response:**

```
Success
```

**Error Handling:**
- Possible 400 (invalid request) errors (all plain text):
  - if email does not exist in database, an error is returned with the message: `No account is linked to this emaill adresss.`
  - if email exists, but password is incorrect, an error is returned with the message: `The username and password do not match, please try again.`

## *Get data of a specific vehicle*
**Request Format:** /vehicles/:vehicle_name

**Request Type:** GET

**Returned Data Format:** JSON

**Description:** When a user clicks on a vehicle, returns information about the vehicle

**Example Request:** /vehicles/fordf-150

**Parameters:**
- `vehicle_name`: short name/identifier of the vehicle

**Example Response:**

```json
{
    "name": "Ford F-150",
    "type": "pickup-truck",
    "price": 30000,
    "color": "white",
    "remaining": 500,
    "image": "images/vehicles/fordf-150.png",
    "ratings": [
      {
        "star": 5,
        "comment": "murica baby"
      },
      {
        "star": 3,
        "comment": "eats too much gas"
      }
    ]
}
```

**Error Handling:**
- Possible 400 (invalid request) errors (all plain text):
  - if vehicle name doesn't not exist in the database, an error is returned with the message: `Vehicle with given name does not exist in database, please try a different name.`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Unable to load. Please try again later. :(`

## *Purchasing a vehicle*
**Request Format:** /vehicles/buy/:vehicle_name

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** TEXT

**Description:** When a user attempts to make a purchase, checks to see if transaction can be made. For a purchase to be successful, a user must be logged in, have enough money in their balance to purchase the vehicle, and the vehicle needs to be in stock

**Example Request:** /vehicles/buy/fordf-150 with POST parameters of `loggedIn=true`,`balance=50000`, and `remaining=500`

**Parameters:**
- `loggedIn`: whether user is logged in or not
- `balance`: amount of money a user have in their account
- `remaining`: amount of given vehicle in stock

**Example Response:**

```
// Success
123456

// Failure
"No More Left in Stock!"
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user is not logged in and tries to make a purchase, returns error message: `Please log in before making a purchase!`
  - If the selected vehicle is out of stock, returns error message: `This vehicle is out of stock. Please browse for other vehicles or check back in the future!`
  - If the user does not have enough money to buy a vehicle, returns error message: `Your account balance is not enough to buy this vehicle!`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Transaction Failed. Please try again later. :(`

## *Accessing transaction history*
**Request Format:** /account/history

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** JSON

**Description:** When a user checks their transaction history, returns information of all history associated with that account including the name of the vehicle and confirmation code

**Example Request:** /account/default_username/history with POST parameters of `loggedIn=true`, `account=example@123.com`

**Parameters:**
- `loggedIn`: whether user is logged in or not
- `account`: username of the account that is logged in

**Example Response:**

```json
// Success
{
    "purchases": [
      {
        "vehicle": "Ford F-150",
        "code": 123456
      },
      {
        "vehicle": "Tank",
        "code": 654321
      }
    ]
}
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user is not logged in, returns error message: `Please log in!`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again later. :(`

## *Provide Feedback/Rating*
**Request Format:** /:vehicle/rate

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format:** TEXT

**Description:** After a user have purchased a vehicle, they can leave a rating and comment on the vehicle

**Example Request:** /fordf-150/rate with POST parameters of `rating=5`, `comment=awesome`

**Parameters:**
- `rating`: rating for the vehicle (out of 5)
- `comment`: the comment that the user leaves for the vehicle

**Example Response:**

```
Review Added Successfully!
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user is not logged in, returns error message: `Please log in!`
  - If the user have not purchased the selected vehicle before reviewing, returns error message: `You cannot leave a review as you have not purchased this vehicle.`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again later. :(`

## *Creating a new user*
**Request Format:** /account/create

**Request Type:** POST

**Returned Data Format**: TEXT

**Description:** When a user fills in all their information in the sign up
form and hits the submit button, a POST request is made to the account endpoint and their information is added to the database.

**Example Request:** /account/create with POST parameters of
- `firstName=John`
- `LastName=Doe`
- `email=name123@example.com`
- `password=123abc`

**Parameters:**
- `firstName`: First name of the user
- `lastName`: Last name of the user
- `email`: Users email
- `password`: User's password

**Example Response:**

```
Success
```

**Error Handling:**
- Posible 400 errors (all plain text):
  - If the user tries to create an account with an email that already exists in the database, returns error message: `An account with that email address already exists.`
- Possible 500 errors (all plain text):
  - If something goes wrong on the server or the database, returns an error message: `Oops! Something went wrong. Please try again later. :(`
